# Simple_Socket_Programming

The purpose of this project is to familiarize you with socket programming by implementing a
simple client program. This client communicates with a server on a remote machine by following
a simple protocol. You need to implement only the client but not the server.

The server runs on the machine SERVER_ADDR and listens for requests on a TCP socket bound to
port SERVER_PORT. Both constants are defined in the header file provided for you. There are
four types of messages: HELLO, STATUS, BYE and CONFIRM_BYE. Each message is an ASCII
string consisting of multiple fields separated by spaces (0x20) and terminated with a line feed
(0x0A). The maximum length of each message is MAX_STR_SIZE, which is also defined in the
header file given to you.
The client initiates the protocol by sending a HELLO message to the server. The client initiates the
protocol by sending a HELLO message to the server. The server replies with a STATUS message.
The client then sends a BYE message, and the server terminates the connection by sending a
CONFIRM BYE message. A connection is successful if and only if all of these messages are
correctly sent and received. Since we are using TCP for communication in this assignment, you
do not have to worry about lost messages etc.; you only need to ensure that all messages are sent
correctly (and that you receive and parse messages correctly).
The details of each message are as follows:

• HELLO (Client à Server)
The HELLO message has 3 fields EXACTLY in the following order
- Magic String: It MUST set to be MAGIC_STRING which is a constant defined in the
header file (CSC424ECE534fall2016). If you send a message which does not contain
this magic string, the message will be ignored.
- Message Type: The type string MUST be HELLO to indicate a message type HELLO.
The server is case-sensitive.
- UM ID: The last field is your UM ID.

Example HELLO message: CSC424ECE534fall2016 HELLO c12345678
• STATUS (Server à Client)
The STATUS message has 5 fields in the following order:
- Magic String: Same as above.
- Message Type: Must be set to STATUS.
- Cookie1: An integer randomly generated by the server (represented in ASCII). The
range is between 1 and 1000.
- Cookie2: Another integer randomly generated by the server (represented in ASCII).
The range is between 1 and 1000.
- IP Address and Port number: A string of the form a.b.c.d:e, representing the IP
address and port number of the client.

Example STATUS message: CSC424ECE534fall2016 STATUS 314 159 10.33.12.31:3333
• BYE (Client à Server)
The BYE message has 3 fields in the following order:
- Magic String: Same as above.
- Message Type: Must be set to BYE.
- Sum of Cookies: An integer set to the sum of the two cookies that are received from
the server (represented in ASCII).
Example BYE message: CSC424ECE534fall2016 BYE 473
• CONFIRM_BYE (Server à Client)
The CONFIRM_BYE message has 3 fields in the following order:
- Magic String: Same as above
- Message Type: Must be set to CONFIRM_BYE.
- Secret String: A string that contains a secret message. You will get the secret string
only if the sum of Cookies that you send to the server is correct. Go find out
yourselves J
Example BYE_CONFIRM message: CSC424ECE534fall2016 CONFIRM_BYE UMRocks!

2. You client program
It is recommended that you develop your client program on a Linux machine (or a Linux virtual
machine) that has the necessary compiler (gcc) and library support (a common Linux distribution
will do).
The command line syntax for the client is:
client <umid>
The client program takes command line argument of your UMID.
